" Type error, coverting circular structure to json starting at object with constructor array index 8 object with constructor object property children closes the server", when looking up dates on the sessions tab error in arkime

What the Error Actually Means
Arkime’s UI is written in JavaScript. When the Sessions tab loads data, the client or server may attempt to run JSON.stringify() on a data object that contains a circular reference (an object referencing itself).
This always causes the error:

JSON has no support for circular references
 [geeksforgeeks.org]
JSON.stringify() throws exactly the message you’re seeing when it encounters this
 [tutorialre...erence.com]
Any UI (like Arkime’s) that tries to stringify log/session metadata that contains a circular structure will break.


✅ Most Likely Causes in Arkime
Based on typical Arkime architecture and the nature of this error, there are 4 common real causes:
✅ 1. A plugin or viewer adding extra fields to session objects
If an Arkime plugin attaches circular metadata (e.g., a child pointing back to a parent), the UI can blow up when rendering sessions.
✅ 2. The sessions query returning malformed or looped data from Elasticsearch
In Elasticsearch, improper ingest pipelines or enrichment scripts can create data structures that—when parsed into objects by the Arkime server—produce circular references.
✅ 3. A bug in the Arkime UI when handling nested children arrays
Your error mentions:

“array index 8 … property children”

Meaning Arkime likely has logic iterating through a children array of session-related nodes.
Circular children relations (e.g., node.child.parent → node) can cause this.
✅ 4. Running an older Arkime build
Older UI builds (especially in the pre‑Arkime Moloch era and early Arkime 3.x) have known issues handling deeply nested session trees.

✅ What You Can Do Right Now
✅ 1. Check your Arkime version
Several JSON‑handling bugs were fixed in the latest 3.x and 4.x releases.
If you’re running anything older, upgrade first – Arkime devs have historically fixed UI circular‑reference bugs in updates.

✅ 2. Check if the error happens for:

❓ All sessions
❓ Only a certain date range
❓ Only when opening the session detail panel

If only a specific session causes the crash, that session record likely has the circular structure in its metadata.

✅ 3. Look at the server log
On the Arkime capture/viewer node:
journalctl -u arkimeviewer -f

If the viewer logs blow up while loading the session, the server is generating circular JS objects.

✅ 4. Disable optional Arkime plugins temporarily
Plugins often attach parent / child references that can create cycles.
Test by commenting them out in config.ini.
Your open tab shows config.ini.sample (GitHub), so check for these in your own config:
plugins=

Temporarily remove non‑essential plugins, restart viewer, and test Sessions again.

✅ 5. Check ingest pipelines
If you enrich data before flowing into Elasticsearch (Logstash, Filebeat, custom pipeline scripts), you may be creating cyclical JSON structures—Elasticsearch will accept them, but Arkime won't be able to stringify them.

✅ Why the UI Crashes (“closes the server”)
Once Arkime tries to stringify the circular structure:

The UI fails to build the Sessions table
The viewer server may respond with an internal error
The browser session resets, appearing like the server “closed”

This behavior is normal in JS when JSON.stringify encounters recursion loops.
 [stackoverflow.com]

✅ If you want, I can help you pinpoint the exact root cause
I can walk you through:
✅ Checking the viewer logs
✅ Identifying which session object is malformed
✅ Looking at your Arkime config
✅ Debugging the UI to see which node in the children array is circular
Just tell me:

Arkime version (arkimeviewer --version)
Does it fail for all date ranges or only some?
Does it fail when loading the sessions list or only when opening a session?

Happy to help you get this tracked down and fixed.
SourcesProvide your feedback on BizChatYou said: how can a user check to see if there is a plugin installed? we are running this on a kubernetes instanceCopilot said: CopilotHere’s the cleanest, Kubernetes‑specific way to check whether Arkime has any plugins installed or enabled. Since you’re running Arkime inside Kubernetes, the plugin layout is different from a bare‑metal install — but the checks are straightforward.

✅ How to Check for Installed / Enabled Arkime Plugins in Kubernetes
Arkime plugins are enabled in two places:

The Arkime config (config.ini) inside the container
The plugin directory (usually /opt/arkime/plugins or /arkime/plugins depending on your image)

Below are the exact commands and steps to verify plugins in your K8s deployment.

✅ 1. Find the Arkime viewer / capture pod
Run:
Shellkubectl get pods -n <your-namespace>Show more lines
Look for pods named something like:

arkime-viewer-*
arkime-capture-*
arkime-*


✅ 2. Exec into the Arkime viewer pod
The viewer is the service responsible for UI and plugins.
Shellkubectl exec -it <arkime-viewer-pod> -n <your-namespace> -- bashShow more lines
If the image doesn’t have bash:
Shellkubectl exec -it <arkime-viewer-pod> -n <your-namespace> -- shShow more lines

✅ 3. Check the active plugins in config.ini
Inside the pod:
Shellgrep -i plugins /opt/arkime/etc/config.iniShow more lines
Or depending on your image:
Shellgrep -i plugins /arkime/etc/config.iniShow more lines
You're looking for a line like:
plugins=wise,tagger,netflow

If this line exists, those plugins are enabled.
If it’s empty:
plugins=

Then no plugins are configured.
If the line does not exist at all, Arkime is running with no enabled plugins.

✅ 4. List the available plugin files
Arkime loads plugins from the plugin folder (varies by container image):
Try:
Shellls -l /opt/arkime/pluginsShow more lines
or:
Shellls -l /arkime/pluginsShow more lines
Typical plugin filenames:

tagger.so
wise.so
netflow.so
kafka.so

If nothing is present or only sample libraries exist, no plugins are installed.

✅ 5. Check the container environment variables (optional)
Some Helm charts or K8s manifests override plugins via env vars:
Shellenv | grep -i arkimeShow more lines
Or specifically:
Shellenv | grep -i pluginsShow more lines

✅ 6. If Arkime is Helm‑deployed
Look for plugins in your values file:
YAMLarkime:  viewer:    config:      plugins: "wise,tagger"Show more lines
or:
YAMLextraEnv:  - name: PLUGINS    value: wise,taggerShow more lines

✅ 7. Check Arkime logs for plugin loading
From the pod:
Shellkubectl logs <arkime-viewer-pod> -n <your-namespace> | grep -i pluginShow more lines
You’ll see messages like:
Loaded plugin wise.so
Loaded plugin tagger.so

No logs → No plugins loaded.